README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<img width="150" alt="Naja Logo" src="./docs/images/Naja-Logo.png"><h1>Naja</h1>
</div>

![build](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/b224740790e24c80a381a6eede28cad8)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/xtofalex/naja?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=xtofalex/naja&utm_campaign=Badge_Grade_Settings)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/xtofalex/naja/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=59ZKZ74HFP)](https://codecov.io/gh/xtofalex/naja)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

## Introduction

Naja is an Electronic Design Automation (EDA) project that provides open source data structures and APIs for the development of post logic synthesis EDA algorithms such as: netlist simplification (constant and dead logic propagation), logic replication, netlist partitioning, ASIC and FPGA place and route, …

Naja contains two primary components:

1. SNL (Structured Netlist) API housed in this repository.
2. [naja-verilog](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja-verilog), a data structure independent structural verilog parser.

### Acknowledgement

[<img src="https://nlnet.nl/logo/banner.png" width=100>](https://nlnet.nl/project/Naja)
[<img src="https://nlnet.nl/image/logos/NGI0Entrust_tag.svg" width=100>](https://nlnet.nl/project/Naja)

This project is supported and funded by NLNet through the [NGI0 Entrust](https://nlnet.nl/entrust) Fund.

## Why Naja ?

### Enhanced Fidelity in Data Representation

In most EDA flows, data exchange is done by using standard netlist formats (Verilog, LEF/DEF, EDIF, …) which were not designed to represent data structures content with high fidelity. To address this problem, SNL relies on [Cap'n Proto](https://github.com/capnproto/capnproto) open source interchange format.

### Optimized for Parallelization and Cloud Computing

SNL is engineered with a focus on parallelization, particularly for cloud computing applications. It features a robust object identification mechanism that streamlines the partitioning and merging of data across networks, facilitating efficient EDA applications.

SNL is summarized in below's image.

![SNL](./docs/images/Naja-SNL.png)

:information_desk_person: If you have any questions, please [Contact Us](mailto:christophe.alex@gmail.com)

:star: If you find Naja interesting, and would like to stay up-to-date, consider starring this repo to help spread the word.

## Documentation

Naja's full [documentation](https://naja.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is available online.

## Compilation

### Getting sources

```bash
# First clone the repository and go inside it
git clone https://github.com/xtofalex/naja.git
cd naja
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

### Dependencies

Mandatory dependencies:

1. Boost
2. [cmake](https://cmake.org): at least 3.22 version.
3. Python3: for building the SNL Python3 interface. This interface is used to load primitive cells (associated to Verilog parsing)
and their associated characteristics (timing characteristics, ...).

Optional dependencies:

1. [Doxygen](https://www.doxygen.nl): for the documentation generation.

Embedded dependencies, through git sub modules:

1. [naja-verilog](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja-verilog): for verilog parsing.
2. [google test](https://github.com/google/googletest) for unit testing.

On Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get install python3-dev
sudo apt-get install capnproto
sudo apt-get install libcapnp-dev
sudo apt-get install pkg-config
sudo apt-get install bison
sudo apt-get install flex
sudo apt-get install doxygen
```

Using [nix-shell](https://nixos.wiki/wiki/Development_environment_with_nix-shell):

```bash
nix-shell -p cmake boost python3 doxygen capnproto bison flex pkg-config
```

### Building and Installing

```bash
#First define an env variable that points to the directory where you want naja to be installed:
export NAJA_INSTALL=<path_to_installation_dir>
# Create a build dir and go inside it
mkdir build
cd build
cmake <path_to_naja_sources_dir> -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$NAJA_INSTALL
#For instance: cmake ~/srcs/naja -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$NAJA_INSTALL
make
make test
make install
```

### Building and Installing Documentation

```bash
#make sure that doxygen was available when launching the cmake command
cd build
make docs
make install
```

Documentation will be installed in $NAJA_INSTALL/doc directory. Starting file to open in browser is: $NAJA_INSTALL/doc/html/index.html.

<div align="right">[ <a href="#Introduction">↑ Back to top ↑</a> ]</div>

---

## Use

### Environment

After building and installing, start by setting up a runtime environment.

```bash
export NAJA_INSTALL=<path_to_installation_dir>
#For Naja python interface and in particular primitives loading
export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$NAJA_INSTALL/lib/python
```

### Inputs/Outputs

#### SNL Interchange Format

SNL relies on [Cap'n Proto](https://github.com/capnproto/capnproto) for data serialization and streaming. Schema files and C++ implementation can be found [here](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/tree/main/src/snl/snl/serialization/capnp).

Files composing the dump are created in a directory usually named "snl", composed of the following files:

- **Manifest File (`snl.mf`):** This file encapsulates essential meta-information such as the schema version and other relevant details.
- **Interface Definition File (`db_interface.snl`):** This file outlines the interfaces of modules: terminals and parameters.
- **Implementation Specification File (`db_implementation.snl`):** Contained within this file are the detailed implementations of modules: instances, nets and connectivity between them.

SNL files can be examined using the `capnp` tool.

```bash
capnp decode --packed snl_interface.capnp DBInterface < snl/db_interface.snl > interface.txt
capnp decode --packed snl_implementation.capnp DBImplementation < snl/db_implementation.snl > implementation.txt
```

#### Verilog

For Verilog parsing, Naja relies on naja-verilog [submodule](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja-verilog).
Leaf primitives are loaded through the Python primitive loader: [SNLPrimitivesLoader](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/snl/python/primitives/SNLPrimitivesLoader.h).
A application snippet can be found [here](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/snl/snippets/app/src/SNLVRLSnippet.cpp) and examples of
primitive libraries described using the Python interface can be found in the
[primitives](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/primitives) directory.

A Verilog dumper is included in SNL API. See [here](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/snl/formats/verilog/backend/SNLVRLDumper.h).

<div align="right">[ <a href="#Introduction">↑ Back to top ↑</a> ]</div>

---

## SNL Objects identification

Each Design DB object has a unique identifier: [SNLID](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/snl/snl/kernel/SNLID.h).

| Field       | Type      | Size (bytes) | Value range       |
|-------------|-----------|--------------|-------------------|
| Object type | uint8_t   | 1            | 0-255             |
| DB          | uint8_t   | 1            | 0-255             |
| Library     | uint16_t  | 2            | 0 - 65535         |
| Design      | uint32_t  | 4            | 0 - 4,294,967,295 |
| Instance    | uint32_t  | 4            | 0 - 4,294,967,295 |
| Net object  | uint32_t  | 4            | 0 - 4,294,967,295 |
| Bit         | int32_t   | 4            | 0 - 4,294,967,295 |

Each object SNLID can be accessed with getSNLID() method.

**SNLIDs** allow to:

- compare and sort objects.
- reference uniquely objects.
- access objects from SNLUniverse.

<div align="right">[ <a href="#Introduction">↑ Back to top ↑</a> ]</div>

---

## Primitives

New primitives library can be added 

```python
import snl

# define a combinatorial AND2 Primitive with:
# - 2 scalar inputs: I0 and I1
# - 1 scalar output: O
def constructAND2(lib):
  and2 = snl.SNLDesign.createPrimitive(lib, "AND2")
  i0 = snl.SNLScalarTerm.create(and2, snl.SNLTerm.Direction.Input, "I0")
  i1 = snl.SNLScalarTerm.create(and2, snl.SNLTerm.Direction.Input, "I1")
  o = snl.SNLScalarTerm.create(and2, snl.SNLTerm.Direction.Output, "O")
  snl.SNLDesign.addCombinatorialArcs([i0, i1], o)

# define a sequential FD Primitive with:
# - 1 scalar input: D, 1 scalar clock input: C
# - 1 scalar output: Q
# - 1 a binary parameter "MASK" of size 1 with default value "0b0" 
def constructFD(lib):
  fd = snl.SNLDesign.createPrimitive(lib, "FD")
  q = snl.SNLScalarTerm.create(fd, snl.SNLTerm.Direction.Output, "Q")
  c = snl.SNLScalarTerm.create(fd, snl.SNLTerm.Direction.Input, "C")
  d = snl.SNLScalarTerm.create(fd, snl.SNLTerm.Direction.Input, "D")
  snl.SNLParameter.create_binary(fd, "MASK", 1, 0b0)
  snl.SNLDesign.addInputsToClockArcs(d, c)
  snl.SNLDesign.addClockToOutputsArcs(c, q)

#The "primitives" script needs to define a constructPrimitives function
# taking a primitives library to construct.
def constructPrimitives(lib):
  constructAND2(lib)
  constructREG(lib)
```

<div align="right">[ <a href="#Introduction">↑ Back to top ↑</a> ]</div>

---

## Snippets

### c++

This [snippet](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/snl/snippets/app/src/SNLSnippet.cpp) shows various SNL API netlist construction, manipulation and browsing examples.

### Python

This [snippet](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/snl/snippets/python/snl_snippet.py) shows an equivalent example using Python interface.

### Application snippet

An application snippet can be found [here](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/snl/snippets/app).

This "app" directory and its contents can be copied to start a new application.

<div align="right">[ <a href="#Introduction">↑ Back to top ↑</a> ]</div>

---

## Applications

### naja_x2y

This simple [application](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/apps/x2y/NajaX2Y.cpp) allows to translate a netlist from a format to another. SNL to verilog or verilog to SNL.

## Issues / Bugs

Please use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/issues) to create and track requests and bugs.

<div align="right">[ <a href="#Introduction">↑ Back to top ↑</a> ]</div>

Commit message:

Naja edit (#34)
* Working on naja_edit sketching and  example

* License cleaning

* license cleaning

* adding MIT license

* license cleaning

* improve coverage

* restructuring regress

* fix regress dockerfile

* add vexriscv

* wrong path

* improve coverage

* improve testing

* improve coverage

* fix coverage

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<img width="150" alt="Naja Logo" src="./docs/images/Naja-Logo.png"><h1>Naja</h1>
</div>

![build](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)
[![Codacy Badge](https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/b224740790e24c80a381a6eede28cad8)](https://app.codacy.com/gh/xtofalex/naja?utm_source=github.com&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=xtofalex/naja&utm_campaign=Badge_Grade_Settings)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/xtofalex/naja/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=59ZKZ74HFP)](https://codecov.io/gh/xtofalex/naja)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)

## Introduction

Naja is an Electronic Design Automation (EDA) project that provides open source data structures and APIs for the development of post logic synthesis EDA algorithms such as: netlist simplification (constant and dead logic propagation), logic replication, netlist partitioning, ASIC and FPGA place and route, …

Naja contains two primary components:

1. SNL (Structured Netlist) API housed in this repository.
2. [naja-verilog](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja-verilog), a data structure independent structural verilog parser.

### Acknowledgement

[<img src="https://nlnet.nl/logo/banner.png" width=100>](https://nlnet.nl/project/Naja)
[<img src="https://nlnet.nl/image/logos/NGI0Entrust_tag.svg" width=100>](https://nlnet.nl/project/Naja)

This project is supported and funded by NLNet through the [NGI0 Entrust](https://nlnet.nl/entrust) Fund.

## Why Naja ?

### Enhanced Fidelity in Data Representation

In most EDA flows, data exchange is done by using standard netlist formats (Verilog, LEF/DEF, EDIF, …) which were not designed to represent data structures content with high fidelity. To address this problem, SNL relies on [Cap'n Proto](https://github.com/capnproto/capnproto) open source interchange format.

### Optimized for Parallelization and Cloud Computing

SNL is engineered with a focus on parallelization, particularly for cloud computing applications. It features a robust object identification mechanism that streamlines the partitioning and merging of data across networks, facilitating efficient EDA applications.

SNL is summarized in below's image.

![SNL](./docs/images/Naja-SNL.png)

:information_desk_person: If you have any questions, please [Contact Us](mailto:christophe.alex@gmail.com)

:star: If you find Naja interesting, and would like to stay up-to-date, consider starring this repo to help spread the word.

## Documentation

Naja's full [documentation](https://naja.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is available online.

## Compilation

### Getting sources

```bash
# First clone the repository and go inside it
git clone https://github.com/xtofalex/naja.git
cd naja
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

### Dependencies

Mandatory dependencies:

1. Boost
2. [cmake](https://cmake.org): at least 3.22 version.
3. Python3: for building the SNL Python3 interface. This interface is used to load primitive cells (associated to Verilog parsing)
and their associated characteristics (timing characteristics, ...).

Optional dependencies:

1. [Doxygen](https://www.doxygen.nl): for the documentation generation.

Embedded dependencies, through git sub modules:

1. [naja-verilog](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja-verilog): for verilog parsing.
2. [google test](https://github.com/google/googletest) for unit testing.

On Ubuntu:

```bash
sudo apt-get install python3-dev
sudo apt-get install capnproto
sudo apt-get install libcapnp-dev
sudo apt-get install pkg-config
sudo apt-get install bison
sudo apt-get install flex
sudo apt-get install doxygen
```

Using [nix-shell](https://nixos.wiki/wiki/Development_environment_with_nix-shell):

```bash
nix-shell -p cmake boost python3 doxygen capnproto bison flex pkg-config
```

### Building and Installing

```bash
#First define an env variable that points to the directory where you want naja to be installed:
export NAJA_INSTALL=<path_to_installation_dir>
# Create a build dir and go inside it
mkdir build
cd build
cmake <path_to_naja_sources_dir> -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$NAJA_INSTALL
#For instance: cmake ~/srcs/naja -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$NAJA_INSTALL
make
make test
make install
```

### Building and Installing Documentation

```bash
#make sure that doxygen was available when launching the cmake command
cd build
make docs
make install
```

Documentation will be installed in $NAJA_INSTALL/doc directory. Starting file to open in browser is: $NAJA_INSTALL/doc/html/index.html.

<div align="right">[ <a href="#Introduction">↑ Back to top ↑</a> ]</div>

---

## Use

### Environment

After building and installing, start by setting up a runtime environment.

```bash
export NAJA_INSTALL=<path_to_installation_dir>
#For Naja python interface and in particular primitives loading
export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:$NAJA_INSTALL/lib/python
```

### Inputs/Outputs

#### SNL Interchange Format

SNL relies on [Cap'n Proto](https://github.com/capnproto/capnproto) for data serialization and streaming. Schema files and C++ implementation can be found [here](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/tree/main/src/snl/snl/serialization/capnp).

Files composing the dump are created in a directory usually named "snl", composed of the following files:

- **Manifest File (`snl.mf`):** This file encapsulates essential meta-information such as the schema version and other relevant details.
- **Interface Definition File (`db_interface.snl`):** This file outlines the interfaces of modules: terminals and parameters.
- **Implementation Specification File (`db_implementation.snl`):** Contained within this file are the detailed implementations of modules: instances, nets and connectivity between them.

SNL files can be examined using the `capnp` tool.

```bash
capnp decode --packed snl_interface.capnp DBInterface < snl/db_interface.snl > interface.txt
capnp decode --packed snl_implementation.capnp DBImplementation < snl/db_implementation.snl > implementation.txt
```

#### Verilog

For Verilog parsing, Naja relies on naja-verilog [submodule](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja-verilog).
Leaf primitives are loaded through the Python primitive loader: [SNLPrimitivesLoader](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/snl/python/primitives/SNLPrimitivesLoader.h).
A application snippet can be found [here](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/snl/snippets/app/src/SNLVRLSnippet.cpp) and examples of
primitive libraries described using the Python interface can be found in the
[primitives](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/primitives) directory.

A Verilog dumper is included in SNL API. See [here](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/snl/formats/verilog/backend/SNLVRLDumper.h).

<div align="right">[ <a href="#Introduction">↑ Back to top ↑</a> ]</div>

---

## SNL Objects identification

Each Design DB object has a unique identifier: [SNLID](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/snl/snl/kernel/SNLID.h).

| Field       | Type      | Size (bytes) | Value range       |
|-------------|-----------|--------------|-------------------|
| Object type | uint8_t   | 1            | 0-255             |
| DB          | uint8_t   | 1            | 0-255             |
| Library     | uint16_t  | 2            | 0 - 65535         |
| Design      | uint32_t  | 4            | 0 - 4,294,967,295 |
| Instance    | uint32_t  | 4            | 0 - 4,294,967,295 |
| Net object  | uint32_t  | 4            | 0 - 4,294,967,295 |
| Bit         | int32_t   | 4            | 0 - 4,294,967,295 |

Each object SNLID can be accessed with getSNLID() method.

**SNLIDs** allow to:

- compare and sort objects.
- reference uniquely objects.
- access objects from SNLUniverse.

<div align="right">[ <a href="#Introduction">↑ Back to top ↑</a> ]</div>

---

## Primitives

New primitives library can be added 

```python
import snl

# define a combinatorial AND2 Primitive with:
# - 2 scalar inputs: I0 and I1
# - 1 scalar output: O
def constructAND2(lib):
  and2 = snl.SNLDesign.createPrimitive(lib, "AND2")
  i0 = snl.SNLScalarTerm.create(and2, snl.SNLTerm.Direction.Input, "I0")
  i1 = snl.SNLScalarTerm.create(and2, snl.SNLTerm.Direction.Input, "I1")
  o = snl.SNLScalarTerm.create(and2, snl.SNLTerm.Direction.Output, "O")
  snl.SNLDesign.addCombinatorialArcs([i0, i1], o)

# define a sequential FD Primitive with:
# - 1 scalar input: D, 1 scalar clock input: C
# - 1 scalar output: Q
# - 1 a binary parameter "MASK" of size 1 with default value "0b0" 
def constructFD(lib):
  fd = snl.SNLDesign.createPrimitive(lib, "FD")
  q = snl.SNLScalarTerm.create(fd, snl.SNLTerm.Direction.Output, "Q")
  c = snl.SNLScalarTerm.create(fd, snl.SNLTerm.Direction.Input, "C")
  d = snl.SNLScalarTerm.create(fd, snl.SNLTerm.Direction.Input, "D")
  snl.SNLParameter.create_binary(fd, "MASK", 1, 0b0)
  snl.SNLDesign.addInputsToClockArcs(d, c)
  snl.SNLDesign.addClockToOutputsArcs(c, q)

#The "primitives" script needs to define a constructPrimitives function
# taking a primitives library to construct.
def constructPrimitives(lib):
  constructAND2(lib)
  constructREG(lib)
```

<div align="right">[ <a href="#Introduction">↑ Back to top ↑</a> ]</div>

---

## Snippets

### c++

This [snippet](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/snl/snippets/app/src/SNLSnippet.cpp) shows various SNL API netlist construction, manipulation and browsing examples.

### Python

This [snippet](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/snl/snippets/python/snl_snippet.py) shows an equivalent example using Python interface.

### Application snippet

An application snippet can be found [here](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/snl/snippets/app).

This "app" directory and its contents can be copied to start a new application.

<div align="right">[ <a href="#Introduction">↑ Back to top ↑</a> ]</div>

---

## Applications
###  naja_edit
This [application] is installed in `$NAJA_INSTALL` bin directory allows to:

- translate a netlist from a format to another. SNL to verilog or verilog to SNL.
- edit a netlist using SNL Python API.


Editing script examples are provided in: (https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/blob/main/src/apps/edit/examples).

## Issues / Bugs

Please use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/xtofalex/naja/issues) to create and track requests and bugs.

<div align="right">[ <a href="#Introduction">↑ Back to top ↑</a> ]</div>
