README_pages/naja-edit-python-examples.md, before:

# Python API Examples

To use the Python API in `naja_edit`, start by creating a Python script containing an `edit` function.

```python
from naja import snl

def edit():
    universe = snl.SNLUniverse.get()
    top = universe.getTopDesign()

    # Do something with 'top'
```

## Print All Design Content

The following script recursively browses the design and prints instances, terminals, nets, and their connectivity.

```python
from naja import snl

def print_instance_tree(design):
    for ins in design.getInstances():
        print(f"Instance: {ins.getName()}")
        model = ins.getModel()
        for term in design.getTerms():
            print(f"  Terminal: {term}")
        for net in design.getNets():
            print(f"  Net: {net}")
            for bit in net.getBits():
                for component in bit.getComponents():
                    print(f"    Component: {component}")
        print_instance_tree(model)

def edit():
    universe = snl.SNLUniverse.get()
    top = universe.getTopDesign()

    print_instance_tree(top)
```

## Remove Interface Buffers from an FPGA Design

The following script removes interface buffers `'IBUF'`, `'OBUF'`, and `'BUFG'` from a design synthesized for an FPGA.

```python
from naja import snl

def delete_io_bufs(design):
    for ins in design.getInstances():
        model = ins.getModel()
        if model.isPrimitive():
            model_name = model.getName()
            if model_name in ['IBUF', 'BUFG']:
                input_net = ins.getInstTerm(model.getScalarTerm('I')).getNet()
                output_net = ins.getInstTerm(model.getScalarTerm('O')).getNet()
                for component in output_net.getComponents():
                    component.setNet(input_net)
                output_net.destroy()
                ins.destroy()
            elif model_name == 'OBUF':
                input_net = ins.getInstTerm(model.getScalarTerm('I')).getNet()
                output_net = ins.getInstTerm(model.getScalarTerm('O')).getNet()
                for component in input_net.getComponents():
                    component.setNet(output_net)
                input_net.destroy()
                ins.destroy()

def edit():
    universe = snl.SNLUniverse.get()
    top = universe.getTopDesign()

    delete_io_bufs(top)
```

Commit message:

Restructuring README, regress and naja_edit examples

README_pages/naja-edit-python-examples.md, after:

# Naja Python API Examples

Naja Python API allows users to:

- browse the netlist data, collect informations, ...
- Apply ECO type transformations.

To use the Python API in `naja_edit`, start by creating a Python script containing an `edit` function.

```python
from naja import snl

def edit():
    universe = snl.SNLUniverse.get()
    top = universe.getTopDesign()

    # Do something with 'top'
```

## Print All Design Content

The following script recursively browses the design and prints instances, terminals, nets, and their connectivity.

```python
from naja import snl

def print_instance_tree(design):
    for ins in design.getInstances():
        print(f"Instance: {ins.getName()}")
        model = ins.getModel()
        for term in design.getTerms():
            print(f"  Terminal: {term}")
        for net in design.getNets():
            print(f"  Net: {net}")
            for bit in net.getBits():
                for component in bit.getComponents():
                    print(f"    Component: {component}")
        print_instance_tree(model)

def edit():
    universe = snl.SNLUniverse.get()
    top = universe.getTopDesign()

    print_instance_tree(top)
```

## Remove Interface Buffers from an FPGA Design

The following script removes interface buffers `'IBUF'`, `'OBUF'`, and `'BUFG'` from a design synthesized for an FPGA.

```python
from naja import snl

def delete_io_bufs(design):
    for ins in design.getInstances():
        model = ins.getModel()
        if model.isPrimitive():
            model_name = model.getName()
            if model_name in ['IBUF', 'BUFG']:
                input_net = ins.getInstTerm(model.getScalarTerm('I')).getNet()
                output_net = ins.getInstTerm(model.getScalarTerm('O')).getNet()
                for component in output_net.getComponents():
                    component.setNet(input_net)
                output_net.destroy()
                ins.destroy()
            elif model_name == 'OBUF':
                input_net = ins.getInstTerm(model.getScalarTerm('I')).getNet()
                output_net = ins.getInstTerm(model.getScalarTerm('O')).getNet()
                for component in input_net.getComponents():
                    component.setNet(output_net)
                input_net.destroy()
                ins.destroy()

def edit():
    universe = snl.SNLUniverse.get()
    top = universe.getTopDesign()

    delete_io_bufs(top)
```

## Browse all modules and display them based on their number of instances terms and nets
